# November 10, 2018
## Midterm election predictions
On November 5, Hailey and I compiled the midterm data and generated predictions for the midterm elections.
### The data
We had a sampling of tweets that contained the handles of candidates in the U.S. Congressional midterm elections that took place on November 6, 2018.  
### Data pipeline
1. Got candidate names from Ballotpedia
    - See `midterm_candidate_scraper.ipynb`
2. Got candidate handles from Twitter tweets mentioning candidate handles
    - See `twitter_user_handles.py`
    - These were not validated, so this is where we lost some data (some candidates did have Twitter accounts and we didn't pick them up, other candidates had multiple accounts and we only looked at one).
3. Categorized tweets as liberal or conservative and generated dictionaries summing liberal/conservative tweets for different candidates
    - See `get_partisan_tweets_per_candidate.py`
    - This Python program generated dictionaries for each set of candidates (1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, 3A, 3B) each day, and kept track of unique users (over the entire period) and kept track of unique tweets (each day) to avoid double counting.  The dictionaries built on each other over the sets of candidates for the day, so the one we eventually used to create our "total" dictionary for the two-week period we collected data during was the dictionary with the highest counts.
4. Made predictions based on dictionaries of liberal/conservative support for each race.
    - See `midterm_predictions.ipynb`
    - We found the top two candidates in each race by number of mentions, and then determined a score for the candidate, which was the sum of the number of tweets that align with their affiliation (e.g. liberal tweets for Democratic candidate). The candidate with the higher score won.
    - We calculated these predictions in two different ways: using the numbers of unique users from the dictionary, and using the numbers of total tweets from the dictionary.  The unique user metric counts potential votes, while the total tweet metric measures social influence.  The output files in the Google Drive are `unique_predictions.csv` and `total_predictions.csv`.
