# October 25, 2018
## Kavanaugh analysis ideas
After last week's meeting, I said I would export my code that counts pro/anti-Kavanaugh tweets so Waldo could run it on his desktop (faster than me downloading json files from Google Drive and running it locally). Since this will require looking at every json file since the start of collection back in July, I started thinking about other fields of interest that would be good to count or collect since we definitely don't want to go over all the json files over and over again.

It would be cool to see the counts of pro and anti-Kavanaugh tweets over time since he was nominated in July to his confirmation (I have already written code that does this - see `kavanaugh_analysis.ipynb` and `Memos/ling-181012.md`).  Relevant information to gather is the time, user objects, and locations of tweets with pro/anti-Kavanaugh hashtags. It would be really cool to make a visualization of a map of the U.S. over time with color-coded clusters of tweets corresponding to pro/anti-Kavanaugh hashtags and sampled hashtags and text from tweets. I'm envisioning it as an animation. It might also be interesting to do a deep-dive into the patterns of tweet/retweet/replies (also in the tweet object). If we want to keep those doors open, it would probably be best to just copy the tweet objects with pro/anti-Kavanaugh hashtags into a new json that we will parse. I'm a little concerned about how big this could be, but it might be worth doing anyway so we have data we can work with (even if we end up writing programs to cut it down, we still have way less data to go through).
## Midterm election ideas
I'm a little worried about splitting my time between two projects and not going all-in on either. There's a ton of potential for analyzing activity around midterm elections. There are still some remaining data collection tasks to do that should be done soon:
1. Get candidates' most recent tweets
    - I'll need to get my developer credentials working again (for some reason they are not now).
    - To get a user's recent tweets, you need to be following them, so I need to write code to follow all of the midterm candidates.
    - Write code to actually get all of the midterm candidates' tweets, and hand it off to Waldo to run on his desktop.
2. Get important data about midterm candidates
    - Party affiliation, incumbent or not
    - These fields are on Ballotpedia - we just need to improve the scraper to get them.
2. Start analyzing data we have collected
    - Count numbers of tweets mentioning candidates for different races. Use these to predict results
    - Count numbers of Dem/Rep tweets based on liberal/conservative hashtag counts within tweets. Use these to predict which candidates will win, and also compare against the candidate-mention predictions to develop a more sophisticated prediction model.
    - Location data about tweets mentioning candidates - can we visualize neighborhoods that are red or blue and see if they correlate to publicly available demographic data and property values.
    - Tweeting style: analyze how different groups are interacting with candidates - are they retweeting candidate tweets? are they replying? are replies positive or negative (should be able to tell from other hashtags such as #bluewave, #resist, and #kag)?
    - Frequency of tweets: It seems less likely that bots would operate on this local level or be as prevalent as we've seen in the data as a whole. If there are bots, what are they tweeting? Which candidates are they for/against?
