Memo waldo-190914
Ground Rules

In a small research project, you can get away with figuriing out how to do things as you go along. But once you get
more than two or three people involved, some ground rules need to be established. This memo is meant to elucidate
some of those ground rules for this project.

**Language**

We will be developing code, at least for the time being, using Python 3.6 or better. I suggest (but do not require)
using the Anaconda version of python (https://www.anaconda.com; versions available for both Mac and Windows). This comes
with lots of libraries like pandas that will be useful for doing the kind of data analysis that we are going to be doing.

My worry about python is using it at scale; not so much that the programs that we are going to be using are large but
that we are a large group, and without some help from the language it is often difficult to keep out of each others
way. If we find this is a problem, we may change in the future.

**Development Environment**

This is an area where we need not decide on a common tool; use what you want. I go back and forth between PyCharm and
Spyder (which comes bundled with the Anaconda version of python). PyCharm professional is free if you have an educational
email address; I like the checking that it does (almost like using a real language). But if you want to use emacs or
vi or whatever, go ahead.

**Source Code Control**

We will use github. The current repo is andrew-shackelford/Harvard_Twitter_Research_2018, which can be cloned
from https://github.com/andrew-shackelford/Harvard_Twitter_Research_2018.git . This repo contains all of the code that was used
for the progenitor of this project a couple of years ago, organized in a not-that-great fashion. 

There is a separate memo, waldo-todo.md, that discusses the actual way in which we will use git.

If you have a github account, you can clone the repo. It is currently an open project, which means that you can
mess things up if you start committing without knowing what you are doing. Please don't.

If you don't have a github account, please get one.

The source will be copied into the Code directory of the shared drive. You should not work on the code in this directory;
this code will be taken from the repository master branch. If there is some change in this directory that is in conflict 
with the master, I will simply blow the current directory away and clone the master from the repo. If you have made 
changes here, your changes will be lost. 

**Data**

We will be dealing with a lot of data; currently the scraper is pulling in between 4 and 6 GB/day. This is in the raw
.json file, which is too big to be immediately useful. Organization of the files is discusssed in a separate memo 
(waldo-180921.md)

In all cases, we should insure that we do our debugging work on copies of these files. Feel free to copy these files over
to your local filesystem and develop there. When running over large groups of tiles once things are done, you should only
open these files in read mode rather than overwriting.

**Memos**

It is important to write things down. So write memos, which are short write-ups of what you have found or what you are
thinking. These should be placed in the Memos directory, which is under revision control. Memos are the way that we turn our
lore into knowledge; they don't have to be right, but they reflect the thinking at the time. Any time you have a new 
question, write it up in a memo. Any time you find something of interest, write it up in a memo. This will be the raw
material for the papers that we write later, but are also a way to spur both discussion and collaboration. They are also
handy when you wonder what you were thinking sometime in the past; if you wrote a memo you will be able to find out.

There is no judgement on memos. They represent your thinking, not necessarily the truth. However, you may find that 
writing your thoughts down in memo form will help you clarify your thoughts.

**Coding Style**

The only think worse than arguing over coding style is not having a coding style. Most of it is just good sense, but we will
follow PEP 8, the standard for python coding. Most decent editors and IDEs will have a "reformat" function that will do
this for your code (although I've had times that the reformat changed indentention in such a way that the semantics of
the code was changed). Remember that the purpose of writing the code is to allow someone else to read it, including you
when you come back in a couple of months to change it or fix a bug. 

**Code Reviews**

We will be adopting a revision control convention (see separate memo) that will require that your code be reviewed by 
someone before being merged into the mainline. Anyone other than the author of the code can do the review; if there are 
problems that can't be resolved between the author and the reviewer you can ask one of the senior reviewers to come in
on the review. At the moment, the senior reviewers are Andrew, Michelle, and me (more based on my knowing them; the rest
of you may reach this status when I've seen more of your code). Reviews occur when you have checked your code into your
branch; have committed that branch to the remote repository, and when you issue a pull request for that to go into the
master. 

The reviewer should check for possible problems, make sure the code is formatted and documented correctly, and request any
changes that seem needed. This may require that the author make some changes, re-commit, and make an additional pull 
request. 

